TouchBistro; driving one of our oldest and truest industries into a technological Renaissance

TouchBistro, HQ’d in Toronto was founded in 2010, has continued to excel tremendously into the 2020s. Helping restaurants in several types of ways before and after the industry was crippled by the epidemic. Here is a list of the executive team; who owns and operates the company by name and position.  Alex Barrotti (CEO), Geordie Konrad (COO), John Doolittle (CFO), Anthony Cozzi (CRO), Aris Zakinthinos (CTO), Paul Snelson (VP Sales).Alex Barotti is the CEO along with the name written below. It’s the top grossing POS (point of sale company out of 37 countries and has helped over 100. (Source: Relay ventures https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MkKDURB_r8Y&t=93s). TouchBistro has over 450 employees, over 6 pillar offers of technology restaurant owners of all kinds, and have raised over 158 million dollars in seed money. TouchBistro after onboarding 16,000 restaurants in over 100 different companies received has raised funding from huge names like OMERS, Barclays Bank, BMO, and even more private firms such as Kensington Private Partners. With offices in Toronto, Austin, Chicago, Mexico City and London they have a bright future while experts in the food industry are predicting a technological ‘renaissance’ to come. (Especially while living in a touch-less pandemic).
One of their tech services is ‘TableSide ordering’ allowing you to order, and as an option pay from the table. Another, is reporting and analytics all the way down to Point of Sale getting that financial transaction right into the books. The aim of TouchBistro is to ease the headaches caused by pen and paper and mitigate losses in the long run. They do this all through touch-less payments, several payment software, employment software, seat management technology, transaction history collection and continue to help restaurant owners. The Ideal customer profile fits a restaurant with 3-8 separate locations. Although the ideal target is Mid-Market, any restaurant needs their service, so anybody that owns a store is a potential account - TouchBistro varies in technological capabilities. They have several competitors, TouchBistro focusses into Point of Sale (POS) services, but even offers hardware like Kiosks. Point of Sale requires large amounts of expertise and operational operational installation knowledge. With over 50+ Account Managers & Account Executives, technicians and 400 employees there is always somebody willing to help you through the process. This Toronto based company has two types of technology implementations, POS services that come with a bundle of options, and one-by-one software products. A quick list of this small businesses offers begins with Kiosks, Loyalty cards and apps, Gift Cards, reservation software, and everybody's favourite - home delivery integrations.
All of these services help deliver the thesis of the company, save time and money, deliver a great guest experience and increase sales. 

TouchBistro falls into the domain of Restaurant Financial Technology, Payments and Billing and Enterprise solutions. In the past 2 restaurants have been hit hard by covid. Referencing the technological renaissance above, owners are in dire need of a helping hand. But the opportunity cost of these purchases could further endanger each individual store. Although cities like Tokyo are lightyears ahead in the restaurant tech domain, we even see McDonald's order kiosks, tap and swipe card payments at tiny local coffee shops, almost every restaurant has internal ways of tracking their employees hours and even analyzing customer spending behaviour. Ultimately over the past 5-10 ten years, progressive restaurant owners and major global food brands are all moving towards harnessing the true power of technology.Here is a list of companies that compete in this domain. Light-speedHQ, Square, TillPoint, Otter there are hundreds of independent agents that represent independent credit card machines as well; such as Verifone Credit Machines.

TouchBistro’s success in the past 10 years is evidence of my theory, that restaurants are loving the use of technology day to day in their stores. TouchBistro over their short existence has facilitated thousands of accounts. They’ve technologically assisted and expanded over 29,000+ locations in over 100 countries. Personally, I think they’re ethically doing a great thing for restaurant owners and their patrons. Light-speed is the main competitor, but is very similar to TouchPoint and only provides Point of Sale (POS) Software. Square, a household technological company has a strong brand and is a less expensive competitor but does not have as many dimensions to assist restaurants. Touch Bistro is the best multi market provider for any restaurant that needs any sort of financial technology. It offers endless assistance for their clients, and provides numerous options for restaurant owners who need solutions and/or consultations.  But unfortunately, they spend alot of their ‘cash’ and budget on appliances and machinery that not every restaurant needs - sometimes not being able to meet demand.

Although TouchBistro has a bottomless and versatile inventory of technology and services to offer to the market, I have one proposal. I’d propose an automated marketing campaign that directs on a hyper link to an online ‘a la carte’ interface right to TouchBistros online domain (www.touchbistro.com) . Considering that 90% of restaurants go out of business in their first two years, their owners need to be targeted and be able to purchase instantaneously. Their website is vague, and leads to a demo - my recommendation is ability for immediate purchases by credit card that sends a rep to install whatever you’d need at the touch of a button. With more information online, restaurant owners can get the job done as quickly as humanly possible.

With hardware and software options, such as customer kiosks vs internal scheduling software - there is need for transparency. With pricing and online transactions/Interac available to customers online - it could the company having less labour on the books and increase quarterly, annual and reoccurring revenue. Even on a more micro level… offering a referral program - the restaurant industry is an entrepreneurial industry, you never know what one owner might also own on the side.


Sources

https://www.lightspeedhq.com/pos/restaurant/lightspeed-vs-touchbistro/?_bt=430021363642&_bk=touchbistro%20vs&_bm=p&_bn=g&_bg=70545761008&gclid=Cj0KCQiA4b2MBhD2ARIsAIrcB-Qg97YANLkKFawBLsYHYFnOruE99aAJ82AOWdnawupA6E5JpvBVNfUaAnd-EALw_wcB

https://top-posproviders.com/restaurant-canada/?gclid=Cj0KCQiA4b2MBhD2ARIsAIrcB-TeholQo8fmux6V-jCTytjpTmpwsbll-ciDwP6ppM_zLt39WHClXpgaAsOGEALw_wcB


https://www.touchbistro.com/press-releases/touchbistro-recognized-as-one-of-canadas-top-growing-companies-by-the-globe-and-mail/

https://www.tryotter.ca/secret-sauce?utm_source=adwords&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=ca_ca_nationwide&utm_term=Touchbistro&gclid=Cj0KCQiA4b2MBhD2ARIsAIrcB-RvmKd0Z7j4Q3_aZftpluM9KiRTAkwjWRiZFZxc0LsJsHdXfrJxgGwaAuffEALw_wcB